Brands estimated that they lost over 1
billion dollars in influencer fraud
which is essentially paying influencers
to make a post or do an advertisement
but those influencers didn't actually
have the influence even a layperson can
figure out if influencers that you're
watching or brand you're looking at if
they are buying likes followers or
engagement and this is a really
important thing to know how to spot the
most authentic way to grow is also
oftentimes the slowest way to grow
[Applause]
[Music]
hello Mom Welcome to our podcast
well thanks bro we should probably
welcome everybody else too yeah we
should welcome everyone welcome to
today's episode of build your tribe
today we're going to be talking about
um some sensationalized headlines that
we've been seeing
um and some news that we've been hearing
reported across all the different social
networks regarding the death of the
influencer and how the influencer
economy is done for that's what we're
going to be talking about today and by
the way be sure to stay to the end where
Brock and I are going to share with you
the metrics and the simple way that even
a layperson can figure out if influencer
that you're watching or a brand you're
looking at if they're buying likes
followers or engagement and this is a
really important thing to know how to
spot it's a big topic people have been
asking me like is it true that brand
deals and sponsorship I mean we a lot of
times people call it influencer ship but
we want you to know we're talking about
people getting deals getting
relationships going with Brands and a
lot of people want to know like is it
truly on the way out Rocky done your
research on this and I'm excited to hear
what you've learned yeah and what
specifically has spurred this
conversation today was that there was an
article published in the New York Times
about Lee from America who is someone
who I used to follow I didn't even
really remember when I first read the
story but then I checked her out on
Instagram and I was like oh yeah I've
seen her stuff before
um but she was an influencer who has now
left the world of influencing and gone
back to a nine to five she specifically
noted that um this transition wasn't
necessarily due to burnout I know we
just did an entire build your tribe
talking about burnout but she said hers
wasn't even necessarily like she was
burnt out from influencing she just
thinks that she has the foresight
um to predict that the influence your
economy is kind of popping right it's
kind of dying and so she's just trying
to provide for herself what she thinks
is a more sustainable income uh more
reliable than what she was getting from
being an influencer
um yeah I'm going to take that with a
grain of salt she was definitely one of
those people that um
was at the top of the game for
influencing and I I think we're seeing a
lot of those people burn out because
they're not getting the same kind of
deals it's much much more competitive
and they are burning out because in
order to make the same kind of money
they were once making like they they've
had to turn their lives over to the
camera so is the influencer play is it
dead the influencer economy is it still
alive and thriving is it dead I think
what we need to do is differentiate
between what we think of when we hear
influencer right right there's a
stereotypical person when I say
influencer there's a person we're
thinking of she's probably from like
2015 Instagram the flat brimmed hat the
perfect Aesthetics the hey guys right
it's the yeah it's the Kim Kardashian
effect it's at level or everyone who was
copying Kim right like yeah exactly even
the whole like hey guys like everyone
learned that from the Kardashians and
that's why it was like it seems so
inauthentic because everybody was doing
it and that's so why it became like The
Stereotype of what an influencer is
because everyone was just like parroting
each other and copying each other and so
that's what I'm talking about when I say
influencer and that's what I think and
that's what I would even say is possibly
even on the decline that level
influencer that kind of person with
hundreds of thousands millions of
followers who is copying the same you
know phrases and vernacular and sales
pitch and the same style and look as
every other major influencer and every
other Kardashian that is what's on its
way out but they're like a church that's
showing that the micro influencer or
some people have called it the the
Creator that and it is on its rides that
is on the come up
well I think people like to call
themselves creators too because the term
influencer for some has a negative
connotation why are are there other
reasons Brock that
um even brands are less trustful today
of the mega influencers yeah I was
shocked when I read this stat it was
kind of surprising I had to reread it a
couple times uh but according to a 2019
study Brands estimated that they lost
over one billion dollars in influencer
fraud which is essentially paying
influencers to make a post or do an
advertisement but those influencers
didn't actually have the influence that
they claimed yo okay so when you said
it's fluency yeah when you said
influencer finals like what are they are
they embezzling money kind of so they're
what you're saying is based on Research
they've been able to determine that
they've got fake followers or fake
engagement yeah yeah so you can buy
followers online you can go on some
sleazy websites and you know pay a
hundred bucks and get a couple hundred
thousand followers and then you could
pay another website a couple hundred
bucks and now you're getting really
consistently High engagement for most of
us we've now progressed to the point
where we can look at it and be like this
is fake engagement right you have 300
comments for people who don't have a
profile picture but these Brands can't
always tell and oftentimes it can be
confusing
I will say that most people can't tell I
mean I have friends who teach Instagram
and I'll have conversations with them
about so and so and they don't they
don't pick they are not able to
determine that they don't see some of
the things that you and I know because
of our you know partly because of insta
Club Hub and this huge Community we have
and we're always able to pull our
students but uh for example these
engagement pods those are real people
right and and the average person doesn't
know how to see and to be able to tell
that someone's using an engagement pod
but engagement pods a Big Brand knows
when you're using an engagement pod so
it makes these influencers look more I
don't know like maybe they got more
Cloud amongst each other but the brands
are not falling for it so you're only
damaging your personal brand uh by by
using those engagement pods so so
they're they're less stressful than
because
um they're on to them they're under
these like fake numbers Etc are there
other reasons why yeah yeah and I want
to also be clear like they're on to it
now in that 2019 study they weren't on
to it then that's why they lost a
billion dollars and that's why they had
to get onto it and also now with
advanced technology and AI like these
Brands can really do their research
their research used to include looking
you up on Instagram and seeing Oh you
have a couple hundred thousand followers
okay we're gonna pay you you know 500
bucks or thirty thousand dollars to make
a post and then that's how they ended up
losing over a billion dollars
um in paying these influencers but these
micro influencers these creators they're
on the rise because people trust them
more they're just so much more authentic
people are more likely to purchase from
them and now some recent studies show so
the brands are 16 more likely to work
with a micro influencer which let's add
a definition micro influencer we're
defining it as anyone with less than 100
000 followers
um well 16 more likely to work with them
than macro influencers so Brock then
does it why is it I guess that brands
are willing to take this gamble on kind
of unproven smaller accounts people who
aren't internet famous yeah I think that
it's actually not a gamble necessarily
Brands can see the conversion rates and
businesses are always going to be all
about the numbers and your it's no lie
now it's no secret the these smaller
micro influencers even though they have
less followers they on average have a
much higher engagement rate on every
single social media app the look the
less followers you have the higher your
engagement rate is and Brands really
value that and those lower level
influencers those micro influencers with
less than a hundred thousand followers
they have a much higher conversion rate
and Brands can track this stuff they're
getting smart they're able to look at
the actual numbers and see that you have
a way higher percentage of converting
your followers into customers and we can
can get into why but in short it's
because these smaller communities really
trust the people they model they're
trusting these micro influencers and
these micro influencers are oftentimes
super focused within a Neath like they
know one topic they're speaking to
they're addressing one problem talking
about one solution talking to one group
of people whereas the Kardashians are
these Mega influencers they have
millions of followers and thus they have
permission to talk about anything and
everything so then with all of these
opportunities someone who is interested
and we're gonna stop maybe using the
word influencer because I know some
people are like I don't want to be an
influencer okay but let's just say that
you you're someone who has under 100 000
followers maybe up twenty thousand maybe
a ten thousand and then we have hundreds
and hundreds of students of ours in it's
a club Hub who are micro influencers and
they and they understand how to create
that trust should they just be checking
their inbox to see if brands are
reaching out to them should they be
taking any deal that comes their way
because now there's you know on both
Instagram and Tick Tock there's a way
for Brands to reach out to you should
they just you know strike while the
iron's hot yeah well first of all no
definitely don't take them all uh but
what I will say is usually when you're
first getting started especially when
you're on the even lower end of being a
micro influencer you're just getting
started uh Maria's probably aren't going
to come reaching out to you the only
real collaboration invitations that
you're gonna get are those spammy
comments that say pm to collab right and
that's super inauthentic it's usually
some scammer trying to get your money
but when you're first getting started
it's important that you are reaching out
to brands that you are getting connected
with companies and you know we could go
off on a whole side tangent of all the
best practices for that but let's let's
get back to you know who should you work
with uh what what kind of money should
you chase and what kind of deals should
you not Chase I would say first and
foremost you need to be really really
careful with how you vet and pick and
choose which brands to partner with
because the reason that you can be so
effective as a micro influencer is
because you have trust your followers
trust you there's no one who trusts you
more than this small intimate community
and so that's us is the most valuable
commodity that trust is how you
ultimately will get them to visit the
link or to sign up for whatever it is
that you're promoting and so if you're
working with brands that aren't in
alignment with you if you're working
with just anyone who's willing to pay
you your followers are going to know
that and you're going to lose you're
going to lose their trust which means
means you're also going to lose your
influence
um yeah work with brands that you know
are in alignment with you work with
brands that have a shared value that
have a product that you've used before
and you can really trust it and you can
stand behind it and say you know I'd use
this I use it in my own life I like it I
love it I've used it for x amount of
time it's not just something you're
getting paid to promote and then the
other note that I will give about
picking Brands to partner with and this
one's something that a lot of people
don't think about when they're first
getting into this world is partner with
brands that still allow you to be you
part of it man
our volumes to be authentic in yourself
because I can tell you there is nothing
worse than when you partner with a brand
and I've done this before myself and you
sign the contract and you know you like
the product you use it yourself you're
like all right this sounds like a great
deal and then they say here's the script
we would like you to read for this
advertisement or here's the word for
word real that we want you to make I'm
like you don't know me you don't know my
audience you don't know how I would say
things give me the freedom to be myself
and record my own content and all of my
best performing brand deals all of my
sponsored posts that end up getting the
most engagement and the highest
click-through rate are the one the
brands were like say whatever you want
yes freedom to be yourself because then
I can have fun and like I can be myself
and I know what my audience wants for me
a word for word script I'll share a
story so uh one of the brands that I
work with did exactly that and it was a
new relationship so I really want to be
easy to work with and they were like
here's what we need you to post and and
this is what I want to say to any one of
you you know your brain especially if
you understand marketing and you
understand the psychology of the people
who are following you why they're
following you you know what they're
going to respond to these brands have no
clue I'm sorry and a lot of them have
hired somebody straight out of college
again no offense but they don't know
marketing either or they would be
marketing themselves and so you're on
this call with someone who's been told
like have all of our brand deals read
this script word for word here's the
must read so I had this opportunity to
work with this one Brandon they you know
they did exactly that and I was like you
know I I really would kind of like to do
it this way they also want to the only
way I could get a deal with them is if
my first reel with them was a a collab
reel well I know and you and I both know
that when you as a larger account does a
collab with a smaller account it you're
going to get smaller Reach the the
little account might get something but
they want they want my P people you know
what I'm saying so I knew that wasn't
going to work out well and then they
wanted me to read the script and they
wanted me to say clicking you know
Lincoln but all the things that we know
because we teach people this stuff
um this is going to diminish your reach
it's going to diminish your
click-throughs it's going to diminish
the engagement it's gonna it's going to
perform horribly
but I decided to just do it and then
come back to them and show them why and
also present to them here I want to give
you give you another post and I want to
show you how I would have done this this
is like a freebie and so I did another
post that was entirely organic I wasn't
selling it I was showing people how I
use this product I didn't say click I
did nothing I just created curiosity the
way we you know teach people templates
to follow and the post blew up from
there on moving forward they trusted me
to know how to Market to my following
and if they hadn't I probably would have
ended that relationship number one
because it doesn't feel good to not
perform well number two it sucks to have
to have someone basically like they're
hurting my engagement they're hurting my
opportunity to serve my audience in a
way that's authentic and that's not fun
and nobody needs to take money that
isn't Fun and doesn't feel authentic
yeah I absolutely agree and then I would
also say look for brand that you can do
a long-term partnership with I love the
kind of resolution of your story is
after you gave them the second post for
free showing them how you would do it
now you're working together on a
reoccurring basis and that is the real
Golden Goose uh brand Partnerships and
influencer marketing because when you
just do one post about this and another
post about this thing and then another
post about this thing it's confusing and
somewhat overwhelming to your audience
and it also breaks their trust right
because every single week where every
single day you're promoting some new
brand or company I remember there was
this one influencer I saw who I knew
from a past life and was posting on her
Instagram stories in the same day about
two competing Brands she was oh wow and
in the same day was influencing you know
posting a sponsored post for two
competing Brands now a lot of times
brands are gonna have you know
non-competes in there where like you
can't promote a competitor within 30
days but this was crazy for me to see
because this showed me that she was
chasing after the dollar rather than
staying true to her followers she wasn't
anything her own authenticity and the
brand she actually loved and used she
was just promoting anything that was
anyone who was willing to pay her and so
the ideal scenario is finding Brands who
not just want to partner with you for
one post but want to do one post a month
for the next six months or three reels
and three stories over the course of the
next month something like that and
that's something that you can bring up
during your initial negotiations and
Communications with these Brands is just
Express that interest hey if this is
mutually beneficial I would love to
continue this relationship I would love
to make this a partnership that isn't
just a one-off post I would love to
maybe even extend onto my other social
media plan channels or I'd love to
feature you on my podcast if this goes
well on my Instagram and you can parlay
one sponsorship into multiple
that's exactly what we do so for example
I don't want to I don't want to do a bad
job for a brand I want to kill it for
them I want them to go like oh my God
this is amazing we want a multi-year
deal with you and those are the kinds of
relationships that I prefer to develop
so that means I've got to get on the
phone I've got no one can sell me like I
can sell me and I don't I I don't even
need to sell myself I need to sell the
brand and how much I love their brand so
it has to be a brand I already am
excited about and then I want to explain
to them
with marketing in order to be familiar
with something like people have to see
it so many times before they're like
wait what is this like every day I get
messages about the same products I've
been promoting for years and they'll say
I can't remember the name of the CBD
that you talk about like and I'm like I
can't believe they can't remember the
name but I feel like I'm saying it all
the time right so I tell Brands like I
want my audience to be really really
familiar with this I I will do a much
better job for you if we can look at
putting together a package so maybe
they'll come to me and they'll offer me
just let's just use a random number a
certain amount for two stories and I'll
say what if I bring that rate down and
we look at doing this for six months so
I can really crush it for you and what
if I also threw in for that same price
um Tick Tock because once I've created
the content it's easy for me to upload
it to tick tock as well right or some
other platform so I re I'm a big fan of
once you've got them once you've got
them interested
you know know your stuff and be able to
sweeten the deal by making it something
that's a win-win you're reducing your
price maybe
um but offering them a relationship
where it's much more seamless and much
more organic for uh your customers
experience too because as you said Brock
trust is everything yeah like it likes
and follows who cares what brands are
going to start look are really going to
start measuring is trust which speaks to
the point of what you said earlier don't
buy followers don't do these engagement
groups or buying shout outs from other
fake influencers to become your own fake
influencer like there's so many yummy
sleazy inauthentic ways to grow but in
actuality the most authentic way to grow
is also oftentimes the slowest way to
grow so be okay with growing slower than
someone who's buying a hundred thousand
fake followers it's okay because you're
actually building trust you're actually
building a community and you're actually
building in relationships one thing that
you did bring up Mom that I think is
important to note as well is the this
idea of products and how much you're
charging and I think that's part of the
reason that there's this headline and
this this news that the the influence
your economy is done and it's because
influencers have lost touch with what
they should be charging a lot of these
people with yes hundreds of thousands or
millions of followers who are again
getting lower engagement rates and lower
click-through rate and they're not
performing for Brands they're charging
and I kid you not hundreds of thousands
of dollars for one post I know
podcasters who are doing million dollar
multi-million dollar hundreds of
millions of dollars with deals just to
be exclusive on certain streaming
platforms it's crazy the amount of money
that some of these people are charging
and for a while a lot of these people
were receiving but now brands are like
wait why would I work with this one
influencer who's going to cost me a
hundred and fifty thousand dollars for
one reel when instead I could work with
a bunch of micro influencers who have
way more engaged communities I could pay
these people a way more fair rate and
I'm gonna get way better results for it
oh yeah I mean it's Roi that's all they
care about because you stayed to the end
now we are going to I'm going to share
with you what you need to be looking for
if you're trying to figure out yourself
just because maybe you're nosy or you're
curious if somebody is engaging in some
of these bogus numbers that you're
seeing on their accounts all right so
number one if you're trying to figure
out maybe you are a brand that's looking
to partner with some of these micro or
Nano influencers and you're trying to
figure out without using software what's
really going on one of the first things
you can do is take a look by scrolling
back through their last year's worth of
posts very quick to do just tap on the
reels icon and take a look at the number
of likes they get on average for their
content if they are are very close to
the same number like it's six thousand
nine hundred it's six thousand seven
hundred it's seven thousand and those
numbers are really close almost every
single time guaranteed those are
purchased likes because somebody with
authentic content is going to have
spikes of a twenty thousand like and
then a four thousand like and then a 50
000 like and then a two thousand like
that's real okay the next thing you can
do is see if they have about the same
number of comments for almost every
single reel then take a look at those
comments if most of those comments are
saying things that it might even be a
long comment
but you'll see them a lot of these
engagement groups let's talk about
they're real people making real comments
but they're part of an engagement group
and the idea is you have to jump on
somebody else's post and you make a
meaningful comment which is usually like
thanks for sharing this babe oh
beautiful post so beautiful and then if
you go and click on that person they've
got the same comments from the same
people that's an engagement group the
other thing you can do or see sometimes
is
um the if you click on the people who
are making comments
they I have two posts it's from a
different country
um the English is broken the comments
don't really make sense uh and those are
usually Bots some other things that I
would say to look for is if you're
seeing a huge discrepancy between likes
and comments so if you're seeing someone
who has like 15
000 likes and they have like six
comments that doesn't make any sense
because the amount of views and likes
that that person is receiving and yet of
those 15 000 likes which is probably
hundreds of thousands of viewers only
like five of them decided they had
anything to say anything to comment
that's very unlikely so that's yeah it's
not happening so if if the comments are
just super generic and basic kind of
like you said Mom where it's just maybe
a couple emojis or or things that also
don't really specifically relate to the
posts things that are just super you
know compliments that could be put on
any post on Instagram yeah was there a
great fire giveaways another dead
giveaway that someone has maybe
purchased followers or done something
like this is a brought in seemingly
drastic change in engagement if you're
scrolling back and it's like three likes
five likes yeah likes for yeah like and
then also it goes to like 9 500 900
953 and it's super like it's overnight
yeah it's like a rapid jump from yes
we're low to super high that's a dead
giveaway my favorite is when they um
they forget like or maybe they didn't
pay the bill that month right and so
they get you know nine thousand likes
nine thousand likes nine thousand likes
and then they get 120 likes and you can
tell that they uh oh they forgot to you
know re repay the whoever it is they're
paying to do this stuff
um and lastly it's that person who has a
ton of followers but they're not getting
any uh likes or comments that match the
numbers like they've got maybe 30 000
followers but they're getting 20 likes
and three comments and two of those
comments are
um about Crypt dough coin yeah sometimes
you know people bought followers a long
long time ago what do you do about that
there's nothing you do about it now like
you know you just you gotta you gotta
rebuild if you will but moving forward
don't do any of these things because
very soon even the small Brands will be
able to spot this stuff and it just
hurts your brand and Trust factor in the
long run trust is the absolute greatest
currency and it's what micro influencers
have it's what Mega influencers are
losing thank you all so much for
listening today Mom thank you for
joining me in this conversation we'll
see you all in the next time and don't
forget to subscribe if you enjoyed
today's podcast and also if you're
watching on YouTube give us a little
like because we're trying to grow on
YouTube as well and we're having fun
with the video based version of this
podcast hey hey yes if you want to see
what we're wearing well how our hair is
styled or how Brock's hair is shaved his
head is shaved and mine is not you
better jump over to YouTube because
that's where you can find us all right
Brock I'll see you soon love you
thank you
[Music]